G23-R010: EEG
*************
:order: 510

This lab is operated by the Ullsperger Lab.

For questions, problems, or scheduling, contact `Christina Becker`_ or `Laura
Waite`_.

.. _Christina Becker: https://lsf.ovgu.de/qislsf/rds?state=verpublish&status=init&vmfile=no&moduleCall=webInfo&publishConfFile=webInfoPerson&publishSubDir=personal&keep=y&purge=y&personal.pid=6312
.. _Laura Waite: https://lsf.ovgu.de/qislsf/rds?state=verpublish&status=init&vmfile=no&moduleCall=webInfo&publishConfFile=webInfoPerson&publishSubDir=personal&keep=y&purge=y&personal.pid=9015

Overview
========
The lab has two soundproof cabins with Faraday cages for EEG experiments.
Each cabin has its own KVM matrix, which allows for nearly complete flexibility
over which computer (EEG recorder, Eye Tracker, Presentation Machine, or
researcher supplied Laptop) displays to any screen — and routes both audio and
USB.

The KVM matrices are also interconnected, so one machine can display to both
cabins.

Cabin 1 (left)
  EEG; speakers; eye tracking

Cabin 2 (right)
  EEG; pain stimulation; Current Designs peripherals

Software
========
The Presentation Computers run Windows 7 and have been configured in
compliance with Brain Products' official guidelines. These machines should
never, under any circumstances, be connected to the network.

Both machines run Matlab (2012b) and Presentation (multiple versions).

EEG
===
Brain Products is the EEG equipment vendor used in this laboratory.

Cabin 1 (left)
  * 2x 32-channel `BrainAmp MR Plus`_
  * 1x 16-channel `BrainAmp ExG MR`_

Cabin 2 (right)
  * 2x 32-channel `BrainAmp DC`_
  * 1x 16-channel `BrainAmp ExG MR`_

The additional Brain Products peripherals available are:

* 2x `StimTrak`_
* 2x `Photodiode`_
* 1x `Acoustical Stimulator Adapter`_
* 2x `GSR (Galvanic Skin Response) sensor`_

.. _BrainAmp MR Plus: http://www.brainproducts.com/productdetails.php?id=6
.. _BrainAmp DC: http://www.brainproducts.com/productdetails.php?id=2
.. _BrainAmp ExG MR: http://www.brainproducts.com/productdetails.php?id=8
.. _StimTrak: http://www.brainproducts.com/productdetails.php?id=57
.. _Photodiode: http://pressrelease.brainproducts.com/photosensor/
.. _Acoustical Stimulator Adapter: http://pressrelease.brainproducts.com/stimtrak_acoustical_stimulator/
.. _GSR (Galvanic Skin Response) sensor: http://www.brainproducts.com/productdetails.php?id=50

Eye Tracker
===========
SR Research EyeLink 1000

.. class:: todo

  **TODO:** discuss camera speed, mount, etc

Current Designs
===============
A `Current Designs 932`_ unit is connected to the Presentation Computer of the
right cabin. The following MR safe peripherals are available:

* `Tethyx Joystick`_
* `Bimanual Grip Force`_

.. _Current Designs 932: http://www.curdes.com/mainforp/interfaces/fiu-932b.html
.. _Tethyx Joystick: http://www.curdes.com/mainforp/interfaces/fiu-932b.html
.. _Bimanual Grip Force: http://www.curdes.com/mainforp/responsedevices/variabledevices/hhsc-2x1-grfc.html

Pain Stimulation
================
Two Digitimer current stimulators are available, the `DS5`_ and `DS7A`_. In
practice, however, only the DS7A is used, as the DS5 is unable to provide enough
current to be aversive enough for subjects.

The DS7A pulse can be triggered by software, but the intensity cannot be
controlled by software. Thus, the initial calibration must be done manually.

.. _DS5: https://digitimer.com/products/clinical-neurophysiology/peripheral-stimulators-2/ds5-isolated-bipolar-constant-current-stimulator-clinical-product/
.. _DS7A: https://digitimer.com/products/clinical-neurophysiology/peripheral-stimulators-2/ds7a-ds7ah-hv-constant-current-stimulator-clinical-product/

Speakers
========
`Avantone Passive MixCubes`_ were selected because they have a well understood
sonic profile (modeled after the well known Auratones) and an overall linear
frequency response. They are also shielded, to prevent interference.

.. _Avantone Passive Mixcubes: http://www.avantonepro.com/mixcube-passive-creme-mono.php

KVM Matrix
==========
The Gefen EXT-DVIKVM-444DL KVM Matrix (`datasheet`_; `manual`_) is the key piece
that makes it possible to use all the computers, screens, USB peripherals, and
audio devices — in all the needed combinations. It is also a DVI amplifier,
enabling reliable signal for the longer cable runs into the EEG cabins.

Each matrix can connect to 4 computers (1x DVI; 1x USB; 1x 3.5mm audio) and
4 control stations (1x screen; 1x keyboard; 1x speakers/headphones).

Any control station can connect to any computer — and even *multiple* control
stations can be connected to the same computer.

To demonstrate how this is useful, the following is a common experiment
workflow:

EEG Recorder is displayed inside the cabin:
  as the technician flows the gel into the caps, they need to see which ones
  have good contact
Eye Tracker is displayed inside the cabin:
  to run the calibration
Presentation Machine (or Researcher's Laptop) is displayed inside the cabin:
  to display the actual experiment

Each control station has a Perixx keyboard (Periboard 409) that has 2 additional
USB ports. One is used for a mouse; the other can be used by other USB response
devices (joystick, etc). These are all routed, via the Matrix, to the
appropriate computer.

.. _datasheet: http://resources.corebrands.com/products/EXT-DVIKVM-444DL/pdf_EXT-DVIKVM-444DL_Datasheet.pdf
.. _manual: http://resources.corebrands.com/products/EXT-DVIKVM-444DL/pdf_EXT-DVIKVM-444DL_Manual.pdf

Monitors
========
The colored dots on the monitors match the Gefen matrix remote.

Recording Monitor (Green/Input #1)
  Samsung SyncMaster SA450
  The vertical orientation allows viewing many EEG channels simultaneously.

Eye Tracking Monitor (Brown/Input #2)
  Requires a 4:3 ratio monitor

Presentation Monitor (Blue/Input #3)
  Samsung SyncMaster 2233RZ

In-Cabin Monitor (Red/Input #4)
  Samsung SyncMaster 2233RZ

The `Samsung 2233RZ`_ was specifically chosen because of a paper that measured
its timing and found it to be favorable.

.. class:: todo

  **TODO:** link to 2233RZ paper

  **TODO:** explain refresh rate vs resolution and matrix

.. _Samsung 2233RZ: http://www.samsung.com/us/system/consumer/product/ls/22/cm/ls22cmfkfvza/2233RZ_DSHT.pdf

Peripherals
===========
The following additional peripherals are available:

* 2x USB Joysticks (1x "Flightstick Pro"; 1x "Fighterstick")
* 2x 3-button 9-pin serial response box (custom)
* 1x 5-button 9-pin serial response box (custom)
* 1x 25-pin serial foot pedals (custom)

.. class:: todo

  **TODO:** scroll device

Zebris
======
.. class:: todo

  **TODO:** Describe and link: Zebris device
